♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT
GONNA CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
CHANCELLOR: TWICE!
TWICE HE'S BEEN CAPTURED,
AND TWICE HE'S ESCAPED.
OUR MAGISTRATE SHOULD NEVER
HAVE SHOWN HIM MERCY.
HE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
EXECUTED FOR HIS CRIMES.
COUNCILOR: YOU HAD
A SIMPLE MISSION, DURAS--
THAT ARCHER WAS HARBORING
LOCATE THE REBELS
AND RETURN THEM TO THE EMPIRE.
BUT YOU FAILED.
ARCHER MADE A FOOL OF YOU.
WE ARE OFFERING YOU A CHANCE
CHANCELLOR:
TO REGAIN YOUR COMMAND
AND YOUR HONOR.
DURAS: I WILL NOT FAIL.
[FIST HITS CHEST]
REED: IT HAS TO BE SOMETHING
PRETTY SERIOUS.
TUCKER: WHAT'S GOING ON?
THE CAPTAIN WANTS TO TALK TO US.
REED:
TUCKER: ABOUT WHAT?
HOSHI: HE'S SPEAKING
TO ADMIRAL FORREST.
IT'S THE THIRD TIME
IN THE LAST HOUR.
TUCKER: WELL, SOMETHING'S
OBVIOUSLY UP.
PHLOX: I CAN'T REMEMBER
THE LAST TIME HE ASKED ME
TO JOIN THE SENIOR STAFF
FOR A BRIEFING.
SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE FA--
REED: MAYBE IT HAS
[DOOR OPENS]
THERE'S BEEN AN ATTACK ON EARTH.
ARCHER:
WHAT DO YOU MEAN, "AN ATTACK"?
TUCKER:
ARCHER: A PROBE.
THEY DON'T KNOW
WHERE IT CAME FROM.
IT FIRED A WEAPON
THAT CUT A SWATH
4,000 KILOMETERS LONG...
FROM FLORIDA TO VENEZUELA.
THERE MAY HAVE BEEN
A MILLION CASUALTIES.
REED: A MILLION?
ARCHER: WE'VE BEEN RECALLED.
TUCKER: DID THEY SAY WHY?
ARCHER: I DIDN'T ASK.
TRAVIS: IT'LL TAKE AWHILE
TO GET BACK, SIR.
MAN: Bridge to Captain Archer.
[INTERCOM BEEPS]
ARCHER: GO AHEAD.
MAN: IT'S ADMIRAL FORREST, SIR.
ARCHER: UNDERSTOOD.
SET A COURSE, TRAVIS.
WARP 5.
[DOOR CHIMES]
COME IN.
TUCKER: EXCUSE ME, CAPTAIN.
ARCHER: TRIP.
TUCKER: WHEN YOU SPOKE
TO ADMIRAL FORREST...
WHAT PART OF FLORIDA WAS HIT?
DID HE SAY
ARCHER: NO, I'M SORRY.
AH, SHE MAY HAVE BEEN AWAY.
TUCKER:
ARCHITECTS TAKE A LOT OF TRIPS.
ARCHER: OLDER OR YOUNGER?
TUCKER: MY BABY SISTER.
WHEN WE WERE IN SCHOOL, I...
MADE SURE ALL THE BOYS
IN HER CLASS
GOT A GOOD LOOK AT ME.
EVER MESSED WITH HER.
NONE OF THEM
ARCHER: MAYBE SHE WAS AWAY.
[TUCKER CLEARS THROAT]
TUCKER: ANYTHING YOU CAN TELL
ME ABOUT WHAT THE ADMIRAL SAID?
OF CASUALTIES HAS BEEN REVISED.
ARCHER: THE NUMBER
IT'S UP TO THREE MILLION.
WHY WOULD SOMEONE DO THIS?
TUCKER:
[DOOR CHIMES]
ARCHER: COME IN.
I SPOKE WITH AMBASSADOR SOVAL.
T'POL:
ARCHER: AND?
LOCATED THE POD IN CENTRAL ASIA.
T'POL: A VULCAN TRANSPORT
THEY RETRIEVED IT AND BROUGHT
IT TO STARFLEET HEADQUARTERS.
ARCHER: WHAT DO THEY KNOW?
T'POL: VERY LITTLE.
A PILOT KILLED ON IMPACT.
THERE WAS
TUCKER: WHO THE HELL WAS HE?
WHAT SPECIES?
T'POL: THEY DON'T KNOW.
TUCKER: DID THEY SAY ANYTHING
PART OF FLORIDA WAS HIT?
ABOUT WHAT
T'POL: NO.
TRIP'S SISTER LIVES IN FLORIDA.
ARCHER:
[COMMUNICATOR BEEPS]
ARCHER: ARCHER.
we've got Suliban ships,
REED: Captain,
approaching at high warp.
eight of them,
ARCHER: JUST WHAT WE NEED.
TACTICAL ALERT.
HAIL THEM.
[BEEPING]
HOSHI: THEY'RE NOT RESPONDING.
ARCHER: TRY AGAIN.
REED: THE CAPTAIN!
[DOOR OPENS]
SILIK: THERE'S SOMEONE
WHO NEEDS TO SPEAK WITH YOU.
ARCHER: SILIK!
SOMETHING TO WITH THIS.
I KNEW YOU'D HAVE
SILIK: DO WITH WHAT?
ARCHER: MILLIONS OF PEOPLE.
YOU KILLED MILLIONS OF PEOPLE!
SILIK: I'M AFRAID I DON'T
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
THAT WOULDN'T BE WISE, CAPTAIN.
WHAT THE HELL AM I DOING HERE?
ARCHER:
WHO NEEDS TO SPEAK WITH YOU.
SILIK: THERE'S SOMEONE
HE HAS INFORMATION
YOU SHOULD FIND HELPFUL.
YOU WON'T BE HARMED.
DON'T WORRY.
ARCHER: INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT?
TO DO WITH YOUR SPECIES.
SILIK: SOMETHING
IT'S IN GREAT DANGER.
CLEARLY IF YOU MOVE CLOSER.
HE CAN SEE YOU MORE
ARCHER: WHO IS HE?
HE WANTS TO TALK TO YOU.
SILIK:
IT WOULD BE FOOLISH
TO IGNORE HIM.
ARCHER: WHAT DO YOU WANT?
YOUR PLANET WAS ATTACKED.
FUTURE MAN:
ARCHER: I'M AWARE OF THAT.
WHAT YOU'RE NOT AWARE OF IS WHY.
FUTURE MAN:
THE PROBE WAS SENT BY THE XINDI.
THEY LEARNED THAT THEIR WORLD
WOULD BE DESTROYED BY HUMANS
IN 400 YEARS.
THEY KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
ARCHER: HOW WOULD
IN 400 YEARS?
FUTURE MAN: THEY WERE TOLD
BY PEOPLE FROM THE FUTURE--
PEOPLE WHO CAN COMMUNICATE
THROUGH TIME.
ARCHER: ARE THEY THE ONES
THE SULIBAN ARE WORKING FOR?
THE SULIBAN WORK FOR ME.
FUTURE MAN:
THE ONE WHO TRIED TO START
ARCHER: SO YOU'RE
IN THE KLINGON EMPIRE,
A CIVIL WAR
THE ONE WHO'S MANIPULATED
MY MISSION FROM DAY ONE.
WHO HAVE CONTACTED THE XINDI
FUTURE MAN: THE PEOPLE
BELONG TO ANOTHER FACTION.
THE PROBE WAS ONLY A TEST.
THE XINDI ARE BUILDING
A FAR MORE POWERFUL WEAPON.
WHEN IT IS COMPLETED,
THEY WILL USE IT
TO DESTROY EARTH.
BEFORE WE CAN ANNIHILATE THEM.
ARCHER: ANNIHILATE US
WHY ARE YOU TELLING ME THIS?
FUTURE MAN: THE XINDI
WERE NOT SUPPOSED TO LEARN
ABOUT THEIR FUTURE.
IF THEY DEPLOY THIS WEAPON,
IT WILL CONTAMINATE
THE TIMELINE.
YOU MUST NOT LET THAT HAPPEN.
WHY SHOULD I BELIEVE YOU?
ARCHER:
FUTURE MAN: YOU HAVE
NO CHOICE BUT TO BELIEVE ME.
T'POL: IF THIS TIME TRAVELER
IS TRYING TO PROTECT HUMANITY,
HE TELL YOU ALL OF THIS
WHY DIDN'T
BEFORE MILLIONS OF
PEOPLE WERE KILLED?
ARCHER: HE DIDN'T THINK
WE'D BELIEVE HIM.
HE'S PROBABLY RIGHT.
T'POL: I'M SURE STARFLEET
AND THE HIGH COMMAND
WILL FIND A FAR MORE
LOGICAL EXPLANATION
OF WHO ATTACKED EARTH.
HE MAY BE TELLING THE TRUTH.
ARCHER:
IF HE IS, I NEED YOUR SUPPORT,
NOT YOUR DAMN SKEPTICISM!
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG,
APRIL 24, 2153.
HAS BEEN VERY DIFFICULT.
THE JOURNEY HOME
OVER 7 MILLION PEOPLE WERE LOST.
WE'VE NOW LEARNED THAT
TRAVIS: CAPTAIN...
THAT'S OUR SUN.
[BEEPING]
A VESSEL'S DROPPING OUT OF WARP.
REED:
ARCHER: WHERE?
TRAVIS: 200 KILOMETERS OFF PORT.
ARCHER: WHO ARE THEY?
THEY'VE FIRED SOME KIND OF...
REED:
OUT BOTH FORWARD PHASE CANNONS.
REED: THAT ONE TOOK
YOU STILL HAVE TORPEDOES.
ARCHER:
IT'S A KLINGON BIRD-OF-PREY.
T'POL:
[BEEPS]
THEY WANT YOU, SIR.
THEY WON'T DESTROY "ENTERPRISE"
THEY'RE SAYING
IF YOU SURRENDER TO THEM.
"ARCHER'S AN ENEMY
OF THE EMPIRE.
HE MUST BE BROUGHT TO JUSTICE
IF HONOR'S TO BE REGAINED."
ARCHER: DURAS.
OFFICER: BOTH THEIR
NACELLES ARE CRIPPLED.
DURAS: WEAPONS?
THEIR CANNONS ARE DOWN.
HELMSMAN:
DURAS: CEASE FIRING.
PREPARE A BOARDING PARTY.
THREE SHIPS APPROACHING.
OFFICER:
EARTH VESSELS.
DURAS: RETURN FIRE!
HELMSMAN: SHIELDS ARE FAILING!
DURAS: ARE THEY OFF-LINE?
HELMSMAN: NO, SIR!
DURAS: THEN KEEP FIRING!
DISRUPTOR BANKS THREE AND FOUR.
HELMSMAN: WE'VE LOST
DURAS: AAH!
WITHDRAW!
GO TO WARP SPEED.
IT'S CAPTAIN RAMIREZ, SIR,
HOSHI:
ON THE "INTREPID."
RAMIREZ: WHAT THE HELL
WAS THAT ALL ABOUT?
A KLINGON NAMED DURAS.
ARCHER:
HE'S NOT VERY FOND OF ME.
WELCOME HOME, CAPTAIN.
RAMIREZ:
I WISH IT WAS UNDER
BETTER CIRCUMSTANCES.
I TOLD COMMAND
EVERY WORD YOU SAID.
FORREST: THEY'RE HAVING
A HARD TIME BUYING IT.
ARCHER: DO THEY HAVE A BETTER
IDEA OF WHO DID THIS?
AND HOW ABOUT THE VULCANS?
I SUPPOSE YOU THINK
I'M HALLUCINATING.
DIRECTORATE HAS DETERMINED
SOVAL: OUR SCIENCE
THAT TIME TRAVEL IS IMPOSSIBLE.
ARCHER: ARE YOU WILLING TO RISK
A SECOND ATTACK?
IS TO TAKE "ENTERPRISE"
ALL I'M ASKING
AND FIND THESE XINDI.
WHAT DO WE HAVE TO LOSE?
A SINGLE STARSHIP?
SEEMS LIKE A SMALL PRICE TO PAY
IN A MILLION THAT HE'S RIGHT.
IF THERE'S ONE CHANCE
SOVAL: DO YOU KNOW WHERE THESE
COORDINATES HE GAVE YOU ARE?
ARCHER: AT WARP 5,
ABOUT A THREE-MONTH TRIP.
SOVAL: THEY'RE INSIDE
THE DELPHIC EXPANSE.
ARCHER: WHAT'S THAT?
NEARLY 2,000 LIGHT-YEARS ACROSS.
SOVAL: A REGION OF SPACE
VULCAN SHIPS HAVE ENTERED IT,
BUT ONLY A FEW HAVE RETURNED.
SOUNDS LIKE YOU'RE TALKING
ARCHER:
ABOUT THE BERMUDA TRIANGLE.
SOVAL: THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS
OF FIERCE AND DANGEROUS SPECIES,
UNEXPLAINED ANOMALIES.
IN SOME REGIONS, EVEN THE LAWS
OF PHYSICS DON'T APPLY.
20 YEARS AGO, A KLINGON VESSEL
EMERGED FROM THE EXPANSE.
HAD BEEN ANATOMICALLY INVERTED,
EVERY CREWMAN ON BOARD
THEIR BODIES SPLAYED OPEN.
AND THEY WERE STILL ALIVE.
YOU'D BE MORE THAN FOOLISH
TO PURSUE THIS COURSE OF ACTION.
IT'S A RISK I'M WILLING TO TAKE.
ARCHER:
AND I IMAGINE MOST OF MY CREW
WOULD BE WITH ME.
SOVAL: THIS IS TYPICAL
OF YOUR IMPULSIVENESS.
YOUR CREW'S LIVES AT STAKE
YOU'D BE PUTTING
WHEN YOU HAVE NO EVIDENCE THAT
ANYTHING YOU WERE TOLD IS TRUE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ALREADY, JON.
FORREST: WE'VE LOST
STARFLEET COMMAND WOULD NEED
SOME KIND OF PROOF
BEFORE THEY'D LET YOU GO.
ARCHER: I'M NOT SURE THE PERSON
I SPOKE TO
WAS FROM THE FUTURE OR NOT.
BUT HE KNEW THIS WOULD BE
THE REACTION THAT I'D GET.
SO...
HE DID GIVE ME PROOF.
[BEEPING]
FORREST: JON?
IS QUANTUM-DATING THE DEBRIS.
ARCHER: THIS
TAKE A LOOK.
THE PRINCIPAL ALLOY
IN THIS PIECE
WITHIN THE LAST FOUR YEARS.
WAS SYNTHESIZED
THIS ONE, ABOUT A YEAR EARLIER.
YOU TRYING TO SHOW US, CAPTAIN?
SOVAL: WHAT EXACTLY ARE
ARCHER: 12 YEARS FOR THIS PIECE.
FORREST: YOUR POINT, JONATHAN?
ARCHER: I'M GETTING TO IT.
YOU MIGHT FIND THIS INTERESTING.
FORREST: YOUR SCANNER'S
NOT WORKING PROPERLY.
ARCHER: WHY IS THAT, SIR?
FORREST: THE QUANTUM DATE
READS -420.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THAT?
ARCHER:
QUANTUM DATING ALWAYS REGISTERS
FORREST:
IN POSITIVE NUMBERS.
THIS ONE'S NOT WORKING, EITHER.
ARCHER: THEN I GUESS
SOVAL: YOU SAID HE TOLD YOU
THIS FACTION FROM THE FUTURE
COULD ONLY COMMUNICATE
THROUGH TIME.
SO HOW DO YOU SUGGEST
THEY GOT THIS COMPONENT
TO THE XINDI?
I HAVEN'T THE SLIGHTEST IDEA.
ARCHER:
BUT THAT DOESN'T CHANGE
WHAT'S ON THESE SCANNERS.
THIS FRAGMENT'S FROM THE FUTURE
HAVE ANOTHER EXPLANATION.
UNLESS YOU
A LACK OF ANOTHER EXPLANATION
SOVAL:
YOUR ASSUMPTION CORRECT.
DOESN'T MAKE
I'LL SPEAK WITH COMMAND.
FORREST:
ARCHER: I'D LIKE TO TAKE A LOOK
IN THERE.
SUGGESTING THIS IS A XINDI?
SOVAL: ARE YOU
ARCHER: I SURE AS HELL
WOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT.
PHLOX: THIS IS DR. FER'AT.
ARCHER: I DON'T HAVE A LOT
OF TIME. WHAT'S UP?
PHLOX: THE VULCAN RESEARCH
TEAM DETECTED TRACES
OF PYRITIC RADIATION
IN THE ALIEN DEBRIS.
WHY DIDN'T STARFLEET CATCH IT?
ARCHER:
FER'AT: SOME OF OUR TECHNOLOGY
IS STILL MORE ADVANCED
THAN YOURS.
PHLOX: WE'RE GOING TO NEED
TO TREAT ANYONE
WHO GOT CLOSE TO THE WRECKAGE.
DR. FER'AT IS HERE TO DETERMINE
THE EXTENT OF YOUR EXPOSURE.
IT SHOULDN'T TAKE LONG.
FER'AT:
PLEASE HAVE A SEAT.
HAVE YOU EXPERIENCED
ANY NAUSEA OR DIZZINESS?
ARCHER: NO.
NUMBNESS IN YOUR EXTREMITIES?
FER'AT:
ARCHER: I FEEL FINE.
I WAS TOLD THAT YOU THINK
FER'AT:
A PIECE OF THE WRECKAGE
CAME FROM THE FUTURE.
ARCHER: I KNOW.
VULCANS DON'T BELIEVE
IN TIME TRAVEL.
FER'AT: SOME OF US DO.
THIS TIME TRAVELER YOU MET,
TELL ME,
WAS HE HUMANOID?
HOW DO YOU KNOW ABOUT THAT?
ARCHER:
FER'AT: I WAS BRIEFED
BEFORE COMING HERE.
ARCHER: HE SEEMED HUMANOID,
BUT I COULDN'T SEE HIM
THAT WELL.
FER'AT: HAVE YOU ENCOUNTERED
PEOPLE FROM THE FUTURE BEFORE?
ARCHER: A NUMBER OF TIMES.
DOES THIS HAVE ANYTHING TO DO
WITH THE RADIATION?
FER'AT: I WAS JUST CURIOUS.
IT MUST BE VERY DIFFICULT
TO HAVE SO MANY PEOPLE
QUESTION YOUR STORY.
DOES IT UPSET YOU?
ARCHER: DOESN'T HELP.
BUT HOW DOES IT MAKE YOU FEEL?
FER'AT:
I TOLD YOU, IT DOESN'T HELP.
ARCHER:
ANGER WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT THIS.
FER'AT: I CAN SENSE SOME
ARCHER: IT'S KIND OF STRANGE
THAT A VULCAN
WOULD BE SO INTERESTED
IN MY FEELINGS.
FER'AT: JUST CURIOUS.
YOUR EXPOSURE SEEMS MINIMAL.
VERY LITTLE TREATMENT.
YOU'LL REQUIRE
I IMAGINE YOU MUST HAVE FELT
VERY ANXIOUS
AFTER MEETING SOMEONE
FROM THE FUTURE.
ARCHER: WHY WOULD YOU
IMAGINE THAT?
PHLOX: I'M AFRAID THIS
EXAMINATION IS OVER.
FER'AT: I'M NEARLY FINISHED.
PHLOX: YOU ARE FINISHED.
I JUST CHECKED
THE VULCAN DATABASE.
ONE DR. FER'AT LISTED.
THERE'S ONLY
AND HE'S NOT A PATHOLOGIST.
HE'S A PSYCHIATRIC ANALYST.
SOVAL SURE IS PERSISTENT.
ARCHER:
WHAT DID HE WANT YOU TO DO,
COME BACK WITH PROOF
THAT I'M OUT OF MY MIND?
SICK BAY UNDER FALSE PRETENSES?
PHLOX: YOU COME TO MY
WHERE ARE YOUR MEDICAL ETHICS?!
DOING WHAT I WAS TOLD TO.
FER'AT: I'M JUST
YOU TO GET THE HELL OFF MY SHIP.
ARCHER: WELL, I'M TELLING
IF YOU WOULDN'T MIND, PHLOX,
I'D LIKE YOU TO ESCORT OUR GUEST
TO THE AIRLOCK.
PHLOX: GLADLY.
REED: I'M SO SORRY.
THE HOUSE WAS OVER THERE.
TUCKER:
LESS THAN A KILOMETER.
THAT WAS THE OLD MOVIE THEATER.
SEE OVER THERE?
WHEN WE WERE KIDS,
IF I DIDN'T TAKE MY SISTER
WITH ME,
SHE'D SCREAM LIKE A BANSHEE.
[TUCKER SIGHS]
SHE WAS HERE WHEN THIS HAPPENED?
REED: ARE YOU CERTAIN
TUCKER: SOMEONE WOULD HAVE
HEARD FROM HER IF SHE WASN'T.
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG, SUPPLEMENTAL.
ARCHER:
STARFLEET'S FINALLY INFORMED ME
AFTER DAYS OF DEBATE,
THAT WE'RE TO PROCEED
WITH OUR NEW MISSION.
THE NX-02.
READY TO LAUNCH IN 14 MONTHS.
FORREST: SHE'LL BE
ARCHER: A LONG TIME.
FORREST: HOPEFULLY YOU'LL
BE BACK WELL BEFORE THEN.
ARCHER: HOPEFULLY.
WHAT KIND OF ARMAMENTS
WILL SHE HAVE?
FORREST: SAME COMPLEMENT OF
WEAPONS THAT YOU'LL HAVE
ONCE THE RETROFIT IS DONE.
HAVE YOU TOLD YOUR CREW?
ARCHER: THIS MORNING.
HOW MANY ARE STAYING ABOARD?
FORREST:
ARCHER: SOME HAVEN'T
DECIDED YET,
BUT I DON'T THINK MORE THAN
8 OR 9 WILL BE LEAVING.
I TALKED TO GENERAL CASEY
A FEW HOURS AGO.
FORREST: HIS TEAM SHOULD
BE ARRIVING AT 1800 HOURS.
I WAS SURPRISED
YOU ASKED FOR THEM.
YOU THINK YOU'LL BE COMFORTABLE
WITH MILITARY ON BOARD?
ARCHER: I DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH NON-STARFLEET PERSONNEL.
ME THESE ARE THE BEST HE HAS.
THE GENERAL TELLS
ALL THE MUSCLE I CAN GET
I'M GONNA NEED
WHEN WE CROSS INTO THE EXPANSE.
FORREST: YOU WEREN'T TOLD
WHERE IN THIS EXPANSE
YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO LOOK?
ARCHER: NOT EVEN A HINT.
THIS WEAPON THEY'RE BUILDING--
FORREST:
IT WAS GOING TO TAKE THEM?
DID HE SAY HOW LONG
ARCHER: I DON'T THINK
HE WOULD HAVE WARNED US
IF WE DIDN'T HAVE A CHANCE
OF STOPPING THEM.
PHLOX: SUB-COMMANDER.
IS THERE SOMETHING
I CAN DO FOR YOU?
T'POL: ARE YOU CONFIDENT
WITH YOUR DECISION, DOCTOR?
WHAT DECISION WOULD THAT BE?
PHLOX:
T'POL: TO REMAIN
ON "ENTERPRISE."
TOLD ME A SHUTTLE'S ON ITS WAY
CREWMAN FULLER JUST
WITH 200 SNOW BEETLES.
PHLOX: THEY COULD BE
FOR MY REPLACEMENT.
T'POL: THERE ISN'T
A DOCTOR IN STARFLEET
THAT WOULD HAVE THE SLIGHTEST
IDEA OF WHAT TO DO WITH THEM.
PHLOX: AND, UH, WHAT ABOUT YOU?
T'POL: THE HIGH COMMAND
HAS MADE IT CLEAR
TO ENTER THE DELPHIC EXPANSE.
THAT THEY DON'T WANT ME
PHLOX: I'M MORE INTERESTED
IN HEARING WHAT YOU WANT.
T'POL: IT'S NOT MY PLACE
TO DISOBEY THE HIGH COMMAND.
PHLOX: NONSENSE.
YOU'VE DONE IT BEFORE.
IT'S INTERESTING,
YOU AND I--
ON BOARD THIS VESSEL.
THE ONLY ALIENS
TO GO OR TO STAY?
FOR ME, IT WAS A SIMPLE
QUESTION OF LOYALTY
TOWARD THE CAPTAIN
AND THE SAD REALIZATION
THAT HE'LL NEED ME MORE
THAN EVER
ON SUCH A CRUCIAL MISSION.
IT'S A MORE DIFFICULT DECISION.
BUT FOR YOU,
DOES YOUR ALLEGIANCE LIE
WITH THE HIGH COMMAND
OR WITH CAPTAIN ARCHER?
THIS JUST ARRIVED, DOCTOR.
WOMAN:
PHLOX: AH.
T'POL: THANK YOU, DOCTOR.
[BEETLES CHIRPING]
REED: PHOTONIC TORPEDOES.
IS OVER 50 TIMES GREATER
THEIR RANGE
THAN OUR CONVENTIONAL TORPEDOES,
AND THEY HAVE A VARIABLE YIELD.
THEY CAN KNOCK THE COMM ARRAY
OFF A SHUTTLEPOD
WITHOUT SCRATCHING THE HULL,
A THREE-KILOMETER CRATER
OR THEY CAN PUT
INTO AN ASTEROID.
TUCKER: HOW LONG IS IT GONNA
TAKE TO RECONFIGURE THE TUBES?
REED: WELL, WE'VE GOT
THREE TEAMS WORKING ON IT.
DONE BEFORE WE LEAVE SPACEDOCK.
THEY PROMISE ME IT'LL BE
BUT I'VE GOT TO START
INTEGRATING THEM
INTO THE POWER GRID.
TUCKER: LET'S GO.
REED: IS THERE GOING TO BE
SOME KIND OF SERVICE?
TUCKER: FOR LIZZIE?
REED: MM-HMM.
TUCKER: IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT A FUNERAL,
IT'S KIND OF POINTLESS
WHEN THERE'S NOTHING LEFT.
I WAS TALKING ABOUT A MEMORIAL.
REED: I GUESS
TUCKER: MY SISTER WASN'T BIG
ON MEMORIALS.
REED: I READ THERE WAS
A DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
FOR ALL THE VICTIMS
A COUPLE OF MONTHS AGO.
I'M SORRY YOU MISSED IT.
SO OBSESSED WITH MEMORIALS?
TUCKER: WHY ARE YOU
REED: I'M NOT OBSESSED.
TUCKER: SHE'S DEAD.
SO ARE SEVEN MILLION OTHERS.
SHE WAS NO MORE IMPORTANT
THAN ANY OF THEM.
SHE WAS MORE IMPORTANT TO YOU.
REED:
THERE'S NOTHING WRONG
WITH ADMITTING THAT.
TUCKER: I'M GETTING REAL TIRED
OF YOU TELLING ME
WHAT I CAN AND CAN'T DO.
I DON'T NEED YOU TO REMIND ME
AND WHILE WE'RE AT IT,
THAT ELIZABETH WAS KILLED.
SO JUST LET IT ALONE.
SHOULD PAY MORE ATTENTION
MAYBE YOU
TO UPGRADING YOUR WEAPONS.
SO YOU CAN BLOW THE HELL
OUT OF THESE BASTARDS
WHEN WE FIND THEM.
WITH ALL DUE RESPECT, ADMIRAL,
ARCHER:
WHAT IS THE POINT
OF ME WATCHING THIS?
IS IT SUPPOSED TO FRIGHTEN ME,
ABOUT COMMANDING THIS MISSION?
MAKE ME CHANGE MY MIND
SOVAL: IT'S IMPORTANT FOR YOU
TO SEE WHAT YOU'LL BE FACING.
THE "VAANKARA" WAS
IN THE DELPHIC EXPANSE
FOR LESS THAN TWO DAYS
WHEN WE RECEIVED
A DISTRESS CALL.
ARRIVED SIX HOURS LATER.
THIS TRANSMISSION
[ INDISTINCT SHOUTING
AND SCREAMING ]
LESS THAN AN HOUR LATER,
THE "VAANKARA" WAS DESTROYED.
OF A MALFUNCTION OR AN ATTACK.
THERE WAS NO INDICATION
ARCHER: ARE YOU SUGGESTING
THE CREW WAS RESPONSIBLE?
YOU RECONSIDER THIS MISSION.
SOVAL: I'M SUGGESTING
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE, SIR?
ARCHER:
I NEED TO SPEAK WITH YOU, T'POL.
SOVAL:
IF ALL GOES WELL,
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE
TO RETURN TO YOUR DUTIES
ON EARTH WITHIN A YEAR.
THAT IS, IF YOU'RE
STILL INTERESTED.
YOU HAVEN'T BEEN BACK TO VULCAN
FOR SOME TIME.
YOU MAY FIND YOUR ASSIGNMENT
AT THE MINISTRY OF INFORMATION
REFRESHING.
T'POL: I DON'T UNDERSTAND
WHY I CAN'T STAY
IN SAN FRANCISCO.
FAR TOO MUCH TIME WITH HUMANS.
SOVAL: YOU'VE SPENT
IF YOU RETURN HOME FOR AWHILE.
IT WILL BE BEST
T'POL: YOU THOUGHT
IT WAS CRUCIAL
TO PLACE A VULCAN
ON "ENTERPRISE"
DURING ITS FIRST MISSION.
WHY NOT NOW?
SOVAL: YOU WERE THERE TO PROVIDE
LOGIC TO A CREW OF HUMANS
WHO INSISTED ON LEAVING
BEFORE THEY WERE READY.
BUT LOGIC CAN'T HELP THEM
INSIDE THE DELPHIC EXPANSE.
T'POL: CAN YOU BE CERTAIN
OF THAT?
SOVAL: THE HIGH COMMAND
WAS QUITE SPECIFIC.
YOU'RE TO RETURN TO VULCAN.
T'POL: I BELIEVE THAT SHOULD
BE MY DECISION.
THIS IS NOT A MATTER OF CHOICE.
SOVAL:
WOULD MEAN IMMEDIATE DISMISSAL.
DEFYING THE HIGH COMMAND
YOU KNOW THAT.
LET US TAKE HER BACK TO VULCAN,
ARCHER: SOVAL AGREED TO
IF IT'S ALL RIGHT WITH YOU.
FORREST: IT'S NOT THAT FAR
OUT OF YOUR WAY.
HOW'S THAT LAST
REFIT TEAM DOING?
SCHEDULED TO BE DONE BY 0600.
ARCHER:
FORREST: I COULD TELL YOU
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE
COUNTING ON YOU.
BUT I DON'T NEED
TO DO THAT, DO I?
ARCHER: NO, SIR.
FORREST: GOOD LUCK, JON.
DURAS: HAVE THEY GONE TO WARP?
OFFICER: NOT YET.
DURAS: CHARGE WEAPONS
TO BRING THEM ONLINE.
AND PREPARE
IT'S BAD ENOUGH ONE OF US
ARCHER:
IS UP IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE NIGHT.
HOW'S PORTHOS HOLDING UP?
TUCKER:
IF NO PEOPLE HAVE RETURNED
FROM THE DELPHIC EXPANSE,
I DOUBT ANY DOGS HAVE.
DOING BETTER THAN WE ARE.
ARCHER: HE MUST BE
HE'S FAST ASLEEP.
TUCKER: HAVE YOU PICKED
A NEW SCIENCE OFFICER?
ARCHER: NO.
TUCKER: YOU'RE GONNA MISS HER,
AREN'T YOU?
WHEN THEY FIRST ASSIGNED HER,
ARCHER:
I FELT LIKE STRANGLING SOVAL.
TUCKER: AH, SHE DOES KIND OF
GROW ON YOU.
ARCHER: I WOULD THINK
YOU'D BE THE FIRST ONE
TO SHOW HER TO THE AIRLOCK.
TUCKER: NAH.
[TUCKER SIGHS]
TO HENRY ARCHER.
HE WOULD HAVE THOUGHT
I WONDER WHAT
GONNA HELP SAVE THE HUMAN RACE.
IF HE KNEW HIS ENGINE WAS
ARCHER: WHEN I GOT THIS JOB,
COMMANDING THE FIRST WARP 5 SHIP
AS BIG A RESPONSIBILITY
WAS ABOUT
AS I COULD HAVE IMAGINED.
RUNNING INTO SO MANY...
THEN WE BEGAN
BAD GUYS,
AND I HAD TO START THINKING MORE
ABOUT THE SAFETY OF 83 PEOPLE.
TUCKER: AND NOW THE STAKES
HAVE GOTTEN A LOT BIGGER.
WEIGHT OF THE WORLD, TRIP.
ARCHER:
TUCKER: LITERALLY.
TO GET IN THERE, CAPTAIN,
I CAN'T WAIT
FIND THE PEOPLE WHO DID THIS.
AND TELL ME WE WON'T
BE TIPTOEING AROUND.
"NONINTERFERENCE" CRAP
NONE OF THAT
SHOVING DOWN OUR THROATS.
T'POL'S ALWAYS
MAYBE IT'S A GOOD THING
SHE'S LEAVING.
WE'LL DO WHAT WE HAVE TO, TRIP.
ARCHER:
WHATEVER IT TAKES.
[EXPLOSION]
T'POL: IT'S DURAS.
ARCHER: YOU'VE BEEN WANTING
TO TEST THOSE NEW TORPEDOES.
REED: WHAT YIELD?
ARCHER: START LOW.
WE JUST WANT TO GET
THEM OFF OUR BACKS.
DURAS: WHAT WAS THAT?!
HELMSMAN: ANTIMATTER WARHEADS!
DURAS: INCREASE SHIELDING
AND TARGET THEIR WEAPON PORTS!
THEY'RE STILL ON OUR BACKS, SIR.
REED:
ARCHER: BRING THE YIELD UP. 50%.
DURAS: I TOLD YOU TO
TARGET THE WEAPON PORTS!
HELMSMAN: THEIR HULL PLATING'S
BEEN ENHANCED!
OUR WARP DRIVE IS FAILING.
OFFICER:
[DURAS GROWLS]
THEY'RE DROPPING TO IMPULSE.
TRAVIS:
STAND DOWN WEAPONS, SIR?
REED:
ARCHER: HOW LONG WILL IT TAKE
THEM TO REPAIR THEIR ENGINES?
T'POL: IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE.
GIVE ME AN EDUCATED GUESS.
ARCHER:
T'POL: THREE HOURS.
POSSIBLY MORE.
ARCHER: WHAT'S OUR SPEED?
TRAVIS: WARP 3, SIR.
ARCHER: GO TO 4.5.
IF WE CAN MAKE IT
TO VULCAN SPACE
BEFORE THEY GET
THEIR ENGINES BACK,
THEY'LL THINK TWICE ABOUT
GIVING US ANY MORE TROUBLE.
[DOOR CHIMES]
COME IN.
SAYS WE'RE TWO DAYS FROM VULCAN.
T'POL: ENSIGN MAYWEATHER
WHY DON'T YOU SIT DOWN?
ARCHER:
JUST THINK,
IN TWO DAYS YOU'LL BE
EATING REAL VULCAN FOOD.
CHEF'S DONE AN ADEQUATE JOB
T'POL:
VULCAN CUISINE.
OF APPROXIMATING
ARCHER: WELL, YOU NEVER DID
CARE FOR THE WAY WE SMELL.
AT LEAST YOU WON'T HAVE
TO PUT UP WITH THAT ANYMORE.
T'POL: I'VE GOTTEN USED TO IT.
HOW ABOUT ALL THOSE EMOTIONS
ARCHER:
WE BOMBARD YOU WITH EVERY DAY?
ACCUSTOMED TO THAT AS WELL...
T'POL: I'VE GROWN
SOMEWHAT.
YOU'RE NOT MAKING THIS EASY.
ARCHER:
THERE'S GOT TO BE SOMETHING
YOU'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
BACK HOME.
T'POL: I DON'T WISH
TO RETURN TO VULCAN.
ARCHER: WHAT?
T'POL: I WANT TO REMAIN
ABOARD "ENTERPRISE"
IF YOU'LL ALLOW ME TO.
ARCHER: IT'S NOT A QUESTION
OF MY ALLOWING YOU.
[SIGHS]
WOULD NEVER AGREE TO IT.
THE HIGH COMMAND
T'POL: I'VE DECIDED
TO RESIGN MY COMMISSION.
ARCHER: WHY?
YOU'VE WORKED SO HARD, T'POL.
YOU'RE TAKING "ENTERPRISE"
T'POL:
INTO A VERY DANGEROUS PLACE.
THIS IS NO TIME FOR ME TO LEAVE.
ARCHER: WE'LL BE ALL RIGHT.
YOU NEED A SCIENCE OFFICER,
T'POL:
WHETHER SHE'S A MEMBER
OF THE HIGH COMMAND OR NOT.
ARCHER: I'VE BEEN THINKING
ABOUT WHO TO PROMOTE.
T'POL: YOU NEED ME, CAPTAIN.
[DOOR OPENS]
ARCHER: KEEPING AWAY
FROM THOSE KLINGONS
ISN'T GOING TO BE
AS EASY AS WE THOUGHT.
TRAVIS: SIR?
ARCHER: WE'RE NOT
GOING TO VULCAN.
MR. MAYWEATHER...
FOR THE DELPHIC EXPANSE.
SET A COURSE
TRAVIS: AYE, SIR.
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG, SUPPLEMENTAL.
ARCHER:
WE'VE BEEN TRAVELING
AT WARP 5 FOR SEVEN WEEKS.
THE CREW IS ANXIOUS
TO BEGIN OUR MISSION.
DISTANCE?
NEARLY A MILLION KILOMETERS.
TRAVIS:
TUCKER: LOOKS A HELL OF
A LOT CLOSER THAN THAT.
T'POL: A COMMON MISTAKE
SOMETHING OF THIS SIZE.
WHEN VIEWING
ARCHER: MAGNIFY.
TUCKER: NOT VERY HELPFUL.
TRAVIS: IT'S NOT THAT DENSE
ALL THE WAY THROUGH, IS IT?
ARCHER: THE VULCANS SAID
THE EXPANSE IS SURROUNDED
OF THERMOBARIC CLOUDS.
BY THICK LAYERS
WHEN THEIR LAST SHIP WENT IN,
IT TOOK THEM ALMOST SIX HOURS
TO GET THROUGH IT.
ANYTHING ON LONG-RANGE SENSORS?
NOTHING BEYOND THE PERIMETER.
T'POL:
ARCHER: 0.2 IMPULSE, TRAVIS.
LET'S HEAD IN.
ANYTHING?
T'POL: NOTHING YET.
HOSHI: WE'VE BEEN IN HERE
FOR MORE THAN SIX HOURS.
ARCHER: LET'S BE PATIENT.
THE COMMUNICATIONS BUOY, SIR.
TUCKER: WE LAUNCHED
WE GOT A TEST SIGNAL
THROUGH TO STARFLEET.
ARCHER: KEEP THEM APPRISED
OF OUR POSITION.
HOSHI: AYE, SIR.
[BEEPING]
ARCHER: GOT SOMETHING?
T'POL: YES.
TUCKER: PROBABLY THE BUOY.
T'POL: NOT UNLESS YOU LAUNCHED
THREE OF THEM.
HELMSMAN: THE TARGETING
SCANNERS WON'T LOCK ON.
DURAS: THEN GET CLOSER.
I THOUGHT YOU SAID THE KLINGONS
TUCKER:
WOULDN'T GO INTO THE EXPANSE.
WE'RE NOT IN THE EXPANSE YET.
ARCHER:
HOLD YOUR COURSE.
GO TO FULL IMPULSE.
TUCKER: I WOULDN'T
RECOMMEND THAT, CAPTAIN.
THE INTAKE MANIFOLDS
ARE HAVING
A TOUGH ENOUGH TIME AS IT IS.
ARCHER: YOU HEARD ME, TRAVIS.
THEY'RE KEEPING UP WITH US, SIR.
TRAVIS:
HOSHI: WE'RE BEING HAILED.
ARCHER: PUT IT UP.
SURRENDER OR BE DESTROYED.
DURAS:
ARCHER: GO TO HELL!
YOU'RE OUTGUNNED, ARCHER.
DURAS:
AND PREPARE TO BE BOARDED.
COME ABOUT
IF YOU DON'T OBEY MY ORDERS,
I'LL --
T'POL: THE PERIMETER CLOUD
IS DISSIPATING.
I'M DETECTING CLEAR SPACE AHEAD.
ARCHER: THAT'S WHY DURAS
WANTS US TO COME ABOUT.
HE'S AFRAID OF THE EXPANSE.
INCREASE SPEED, TRAVIS.
OFFICER: THE OTHER SHIPS
ARE GOING TO TURN BACK.
DURAS: COWARDS.
WE'LL DO IT OURSELVES.
WE'RE TOO CLOSE TO THE EXPANSE.
HELMSMAN:
REED: ONLY ONE LEFT, SIR.
ARCHER: KEEP FIRING.
IS LESS THAN FIVE MINUTES AWAY.
T'POL: THE EXPANSE
TUCKER: MAYBE HE'LL TURN
AROUND LIKE HIS FRIENDS.
ARCHER: I WOULDN'T BET ON IT.
AREN'T HAVING THE SAME EFFECT
YOUR NEW TORPEDOES
AS LAST TIME.
REED: DURAS HAS TRANSFERRED
HIS AFT SHIELDS FORWARD.
CAN'T PENETRATE THEM.
OUR WEAPONS
[CREWMEN GROANING]
ANTIMATTER INJECTORS, CAPTAIN.
TUCKER: WE JUST LOST 3
AND WE'RE IN BIG TROUBLE.
ANY MORE
ARCHER: IF HE'S TRANSFERRED
HIS SHIELDING FORWARD,
WHAT'S PROTECTING HIS STERN?
TUCKER: DOES IT MATTER?
HE'S CHASING US.
WHAT'S PROTECTING HIS STERN?
ARCHER:
T'POL: MINIMAL SHIELDING.
ARCHER: YOU THINK YOU
CAN PULL OFF AN L-4
AT THIS SPEED?
TRAVIS: I CAN TRY, SIR.
ARCHER: THEN LOOK FOR
THE DENSEST CLOUD FORMATION
YOU CAN FIND.
CAPTAIN ARCHER TO ALL HANDS,
HOLD ON.
TRAVIS: CAPTAIN.
ARCHER: LOOKS GOOD TO ME.
DURAS: WHERE ARE THEY?
ARCHER: FIRE.
NICE GOING, TRAVIS.
TRAVIS: I HOPE YOU
DON'T ASK ME TO DO THAT
TOO OFTEN, SIR.
[ARCHER SIGHS]
THE EXPANSE IS AHEAD, CAPTAIN.
HOSHI:
ARCHER: DID YOU LOSE ANY
MORE OF THOSE INJECTORS?
TUCKER: NO, SIR.
WE'RE GOOD TO GO.
ARCHER: SURE YOU STILL WANT TO
TAG ALONG?
T'POL: IT'S ONLY LOGICAL.
ARCHER: STRAIGHT AND STEADY,
MR. MAYWEATHER.
LET'S SEE WHAT'S IN THERE.